SUBSCRIPTION SERVICES AGREEMENT


READ THIS AGREEMENT BEFORE DOWNLOADING THE SOFTWARE

THANK YOU FOR CHOOSING THIS JASPERSOFT SOFTWARE PRODUCT.  BY CLICKING ON THE "I
AGREE" BUTTON OR BY DOWNLOADING OR OTHERWISE INSTALLING THE SOFTWARE, YOU
("CUSTOMER" OR "YOU") ARE AGREEING TO THIS AGREEMENT.  IF YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH
ALL OF THIS AGREEMENT, PLEASE CONTACT YOUR SALES REPRESENTATIVE.  IN THIS
AGREEMENT, "JASPERSOFT" MEANS JASPERSOFT CORPORATION.

Copyright (C) 2009 JASPERSOFT CORPORATION.  All Rights Reserved. 

Warning:  This computer program is protected by copyright laws and
international treaties.  Unauthorized use, duplication or distribution of this
program or any portion of it without the express written consent of JASPERSOFT
is strictly prohibited.  ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. 

JASPERSOFT, JasperReports, JasperServer, JasperAnalysis, JasperETL, iReport,
and JASPERSOFT BI Suite are trademarks of JASPERSOFT.  Any other trademarks are
for identification purposes only and are the property of their respective
owners.

IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING JASPERREPORTS PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPER LICENSES:  If
You purchased a JasperReports Professional Developer license, the following
additional terms and conditions apply:  1) The term of the license shall be for
a period of one (1) year after delivery or download; 2) No helpdesk support or
use of the Jaspersoft Customer Support Portal is provided; JASPERSOFT may
provide certain updates, as determined solely by JASPERSOFT; 3) The license is
provided "as is," without warranty of any kind or nature; 4) The JasperReports
Professional Developer license is for a single user solely in a development
environment, and not for use in production or run-time environments.

U.S. GOVERNMENT END-USERS: 

This Software Product and the Related Materials are "commercial items" as that
term is defined in 48 C.F.R. 2.101 (October 1995) consisting of "commercial
computer software" and "commercial computer software documentation" as such
terms are used in 48 C.F.R. 12.212 (September 1995).  Consistent with 48 C.F.R.
12.212 and 48 C.F.R. 227.7202-1, 227.7202-3 and 227.7202-4 (June 1995), if the
Customer hereunder is the U.S. Government or any agency or department thereof,
the Software and the Related Materials are licensed hereunder (i) only as a
commercial item, and (ii) with only those rights as are granted to all other
end users pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Agreement. 

TERMS AND CONDITIONS

1.  Grant of License.  Subject to the terms and conditions contained in this
Agreement, JASPERSOFT hereby grants Customer, beginning on the date Customer
first downloads the JASPERSOFT Software (the "Effective Date") and during the
term specified in Section 13, a non-exclusive, non-transferable,
non-assignable, non-sublicensable, worldwide license to use, solely for
internal business purposes (including use by external users, namely employees,
customers, and partners), the object code of the JASPERSOFT Software.  The
JASPERSOFT Software and the Support provided pursuant to Section 4, if any,
shall constitute the "Services").  Customer may view the source code of the
JASPERSOFT Software, however, JASPERSOFT shall not provide any support or
maintenance in respect of any modifications to the JASPERSOFT Software.  The
JASPERSOFT Software may not be distributed to any other person or entity except
as expressly set forth below in this Section 1.

In the event that Customer has purchased an ISV Subscription, this Agreement
shall also incorporate the terms and conditions of JASPERSOFT's "ISV Terms and
Conditions" set forth at http://www.jaspersoft.com/termsdl/ISV_v061607.htm for
the "Customer Application(s)" identified in the applicable Order Form or
Purchase Order.

2.  Proprietary Rights.  Customer acknowledges that JASPERSOFT controls all
right, title and interest in and to the JASPERSOFT Software and all
intellectual property rights relating thereto. The JASPERSOFT Software is the
valuable intellectual property of JASPERSOFT and constitutes confidential and
proprietary information of JASPERSOFT. JASPERSOFT does not grant to Customer
any other right or license, either express or implied, in the JASPERSOFT
Software except as specified in this Agreement, and Customer's use of the
JASPERSOFT Software shall be subject to the restrictions set forth in this
Agreement.  

3.  Restrictions on Use.  Except as expressly permitted in this Agreement,
Customer shall not (and shall not allow any third party to) (i) decompile,
disassemble, or otherwise reverse engineer the JASPERSOFT Software (except to
the extent expressly permitted under applicable law); (ii) provide, lease,
lend, use for timesharing or otherwise use or allow others to use the
JASPERSOFT Software to or for the benefit of third parties; (iii) incorporate
into or with other hardware or software, or create a derivative work of any
part of the JASPERSOFT Software; (iv) disseminate performance information or
analysis from any source relating to the JASPERSOFT Software; (v) remove any
product identification, copyright notice or other proprietary legend from the
JASPERSOFT Software; or (vi) use only the JASPERSOFT Software product(s) for
which a subscription has been purchased and corresponding license key(s) have
been issued. 

4.  Support.  "Support" under this Agreement means those services which
Customer has purchased and JASPERSOFT has agreed to provide under the terms and
conditions set forth at
http://www.jaspersoft.com/ss_subscriptionservices-details.html and
http://www.jaspersoft.com/termsdl/Support_v070708.htm.  

5.  Enhancements and Upgrades.  During the term of this Agreement, JASPERSOFT
shall provide to Customer enhancements and upgrades, if any, of the JASPERSOFT
Software it makes generally available, free of additional charge.  

6.  Export Control.  Customer will comply with all relevant laws and
regulations regarding export of JASPERSOFT Software.  Customer shall indemnify
and hold JASPERSOFT harmless from any claim arising out of a breach of this
Section 6.

7.  Payment Terms.  Amounts due shall be considered paid when JASPERSOFT is in
receipt of the amount due or upon confirmation of receipt by a bank designated
by JASPERSOFT.  All payments hereunder shall be in U.S. dollars.  Annual
Subscription Fees are exclusive of, and Customer shall pay for, if applicable:
shipping; any sales, use, property, value added or similar taxes; federal,
state or local or other charges imposed on or with respect to the JASPERSOFT
Software or its delivery, use or possession; but not including taxes based upon
the net U.S. income of JASPERSOFT.  If Customer is required under any
applicable law or regulation, domestic or foreign, to withhold or deduct any
portion of the payments due to JASPERSOFT, then the sum payable to JASPERSOFT
will be increased by the amount necessary so that JASPERSOFT receives an amount
equal to the sum it would have received had Customer made no withholdings or
deductions.

Customer will make payment within thirty (30) days of the date of the invoice
(the "due date").  For all payments not received within thirty (30) days of the
due date, a late payment fee shall accrue daily on such unpaid amounts at the
rate of one-and-one-half percent (1.5%) per month or the maximum rate permitted
by law, whichever is lower.  JASPERSOFT shall also be entitled to any
reasonable collection costs, including attorneys' fees.  If Customer is paying
by credit card, Customer authorizes JASPERSOFT to bill Customer's credit card
for the Services for the initial term and for the amount due at the time of
renewal. Upon expiration of the initial term, the Services shall be
automatically renewed at JASPERSOFT's then-current pricing, unless Customer
notifies JASPERSOFT in writing at least ninety (90) days prior to the scheduled
renewal date of its intention not to renew.  If JASPERSOFT has approved
Customer to be invoiced, JASPERSOFT will invoice Customer for the fees due as
of the date of this Agreement and upon the submission of any future purchase
order.  Any and all payments made by Customer pursuant to this Agreement are
non-refundable.  JASPERSOFT reserves the right to suspend or cancel performance
of all or part of the Services and/or change its credit terms if actual payment
has not been received within sixty (60) days of the invoice date.

8.  Warranty and Liability; Indemnification.  JASPERSOFT expressly warrants
that it is the owner or Customer of JASPERSOFT Software, including any and all
copyrights and trade secrets, and has the right and authority to enter into
this Agreement and to license JASPERSOFT Software to Customer in accordance
with the terms herein as of the Effective Date.  For the period beginning on
the original date of delivery of the JASPERSOFT Software and continuing for
thirty (30) days thereafter, JASPERSOFT expressly warrants that the JASPERSOFT
Software will perform substantially in accordance with the written
specifications contained in the documentation provided with the JASPERSOFT
Software.  

JASPERSOFT shall indemnify and hold harmless Customer and its officers,
employees, agents and representatives and defend any action brought against
same with respect to any third-party claim, demand or cause of action,
including reasonable attorney's fees, to the extent that it is based upon a
claim that the JASPERSOFT Software infringes or violates any United States
patents, copyrights, trade secrets, or other proprietary rights of a third
party.  Customer may, at its own expense, assist in such defense if it so
chooses, provided that JASPERSOFT shall control such defense and all
negotiations relating to the settlement of any such claim.  Customer shall
promptly provide JASPERSOFT with written notice of any claim which Customer
believes falls within the scope of this Section 8.  In the event that the
JASPERSOFT Software or any portion thereof is held to constitute an
infringement and its use is enjoined, JASPERSOFT may, at its sole option and
expense, (i) modify the infringing JASPERSOFT Software so that it is
non-infringing, (ii) procure for Customer the right to continue to use the
infringing JASPERSOFT Software, or (iii) replace said JASPERSOFT Software with
suitable, non-infringing software.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, JASPERSOFT
will have no obligation for any claims to the extent such claims result from
(i) modifications or alterations of the JASPERSOFT Software made by or for
Customer or any other party that were not provided by JASPERSOFT or authorized
by JASPERSOFT in writing; (ii) use outside the scope of the license granted
hereunder, (iii) use of a superseded or previous version of the JASPERSOFT
Software if infringement would have been avoided by the use of a newer version
which JASPERSOFT made available to Customer, or (iv) use of the JASPERSOFT
Software in combination with any other software, hardware or products not
supplied by JASPERSOFT.  This indemnity obligation is subject to the limitation
of liability and the other pertinent terms and conditions of this Agreement and
does not apply to the Sun Microsystems and Tomcat components.

EXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN THIS SECTION, ALL SOFTWARE LICENSED HEREUNDER IS PROVIDED
"AS IS."  IN ADDITION, THE FOREGOING WARRANTIES SHALL NOT APPLY IN THE EVENT
THAT CUSTOMER BREACHES ANY OF THE RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF THE JASPERSOFT
SOFTWARE.

The foregoing warranties are exclusive of all other warranties, whether
written, oral, express or implied, including but not limited to any warranty of
non-infringement of third party rights and the implied warranties of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. 

IN NO EVENT SHALL JASPERSOFT BE LIABLE TO CUSTOMER OR ANY THIRD PARTY OR END
USER for any special, indirect, consequential or contingent damages including
loss of profits, or any amounts in excess of the fees actually paid to
JASPERSOFT by Customer (the foregoing being collectively called "DAMAGES")
incurred by Customer or any other third party.  Such non-liability for damages
shall apply whether in an action based on contract, tort or any other such
theory, EVEN IF JASPERSOFT HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

9.  Third-Party Software.  Customer agrees to be bound by all of the terms and
conditions applicable to end users of any third-party software licenses to
products embedded in or distributed with the JASPERSOFT Software.  The
third-party software license terms and conditions are set forth in the
"Third-Party Notices" file delivered with certain JASPERSOFT Software products.
Customer agrees not to use or access any third-party software as a "stand-alone
product," or in a manner other than in connection with the JASPERSOFT Software.
JASPERSOFT and its licensors make no warranties, express or implied, with
respect to the third-party software, and Customer agrees not to assert any
claims against JASPERSOFT's third-party licensors relating to this Agreement.
Such third-party licensors of JASPERSOFT are intended third-party beneficiaries
of this Agreement.  Source code may not be provided for all third-party
software, and Customer agrees not to reverse engineer, decompile, or otherwise
derive the source code of any software provided hereunder.

10.  JASPERSOFT Professional Services.  In the event that Customer has
purchased any consulting services from JASPERSOFT, this Agreement incorporates
the Consulting Services Terms and Conditions set forth at
http://www.jaspersoft.com/terms.html.  This Agreement also incorporates the
terms and conditions of any Statement of Work (SOW) package purchased by
Customer, which are set forth at http://www.jaspersoft.com/ss_consulting.html,
as follows:

JASPERSOFT BI Suite Jumpstart - Business Intelligence Workshop
JASPERSOFT BI Suite Jumpstart - Operational Reporting Workshop
JASPERSOFT - Time for Hire
JASPERSOFT - JBIS 4-day Technical Training

11.  No Agency.  The Parties are independent contractors. Neither Party is an
employee, agent, joint venturer or legal representative of the other Party for
any purpose. Neither Party shall have the authority to enter into any legal or
equitable obligation for the other Party. Under no circumstances may either
Party hold itself out to have agency authority for the other Party. The Parties
agree not to make false or misleading statements, claims or representations
about the other Party, its products or the relationship between the Parties.

12.  Governing Law.  This Agreement is in accordance with, and shall be
governed by and construed under, the laws of the State of California and
applicable United States statutes.  Such governance and construction explicitly
excludes the State of California's body of laws governing conflict of laws and
the 1980 United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of
Goods.  Customer hereby irrevocably consents to jurisdiction of the state or
federal courts located in San Francisco County, California.  To the extent
permitted by law, the provisions of this Agreement shall supersede any
provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code as adopted or made applicable to this
Agreement in any competent jurisdiction.

13.  Term; Termination.  This Agreement and the licenses granted hereunder
shall remain in effect for a period of one (1) year from the Effective Date,
unless a different term is ordered and paid for by Customer, and unless earlier
terminated as set forth herein.  JASPERSOFT may terminate this Agreement and
the licenses granted hereunder, upon written notice for any material breach of
this Agreement that Customer fails to cure within sixty (60) days following
written notice specifying such breach.  In the event of termination of this
Agreement for any cause, all rights granted hereunder automatically revert to
the granting Party.

14.  Waiver.  The Party entitled to the benefit of any provision of this
Agreement may waive said provision. Neither Party shall be deemed, by any act
or omission, to have waived any of its rights or remedies hereunder unless such
waiver is in writing and signed by an authorized officer of such Party.  Such a
waiver shall be limited specifically to the extent set forth in said writing.
Waiver as to one event shall not be construed as waiver of any right or remedy
as it relates to any subsequent event.

15.  Force Majeure.  If by reason of Force Majeure including, without
limitation, earthquakes, governmental regulation, fire, flood, labor
difficulties, civil disorder and all acts of God, a Party is unable to perform
in whole or in part its obligations as set forth in this Agreement, except for
payment obligations, such Party shall not be liable to the other for its
failure to perform said obligations.

16.  Severability.  If the application of any provision or provisions of this
Agreement to any particular set of facts or circumstances is held to be invalid
or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the validity of said
provision or provisions to any other particular set of facts or circumstances
shall not, in any way, be affected.  Such provision or provisions shall be
reformed without further action by the Parties to the extent necessary to make
such provision or provisions enforceable when applied to that set of facts or
circumstances.

17.  Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer.  JASPERSOFT is an
Affirmative Action/equal employment opportunity employer who will employ
qualified individuals with disabilities and qualified protected veterans.

18.  Survival.  The following sections shall survive the termination of this
Agreement for any cause: 2, 3, 6, 8, 9, and 12.

19.  Rules of Construction.  As used in this Agreement, all terms used in the
singular shall be deemed to include the plural, and vice versa, as the context
requires. Descriptive headings are inserted for convenience only and shall not
be utilized in interpreting this Agreement. 

20.  Amendment.  This Agreement may not be modified or amended except in a
writing signed by a duly authorized representative of each party.

21.  Entire Agreement.  This Agreement constitutes the exclusive terms and
conditions with respect to the subject matter hereof, notwithstanding any
different or additional terms that may be contained in the form of purchase
order or other document used by Customer to place orders or otherwise effect
transactions hereunder.  This Agreement represents the final, complete and
exclusive statement of the agreement between the parties with respect to
subject matter hereof and all prior written agreements and all prior and
contemporaneous oral agreements with respect to the subject matter hereof are
merged therein.

22.  Publicity.  During the term of this Agreement, Customer and JASPERSOFT may
engage in co-marketing and publicity programs, including advertisements in
trade and other publications, only upon written approval of both parties.  Such
approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.  Notwithstanding the foregoing,
written approval shall not be necessary with respect to JASPERSOFT's use of
Customer's name and logo as a reference and in marketing materials. 